README.md, before:

Remote Redux DevTools
=====================

![Demo](demo.gif)

Use [Redux DevTools](https://github.com/gaearon/redux-devtools) remotely for React Native, hybrid, desktop and server side Redux apps.

### Installation

```
npm install --save-dev remote-redux-devtools
```

### Usage

There are 2 ways of usage depending if you're using other store enhancers (middlewares) or not.

#### Add DevTools enhancer to your store

If you have a basic [store](http://redux.js.org/docs/api/createStore.html) as described in the official [redux-docs](http://redux.js.org/index.html), simply replace:
  ```javascript
  import { createStore } from 'redux';
  const store = createStore(reducer);
  ```
  with
  ```javascript
  import { createStore } from 'redux';
  import devToolsEnhancer from 'remote-redux-devtools';
  const store = createStore(reducer, devToolsEnhancer());
  // or const store = createStore(reducer, preloadedState, devToolsEnhancer());
  ```
  
> Note: passing enhancer as last argument requires redux@>=3.1.0

#### Use DevTools compose helper

  If you setup your store with [middleware and enhancers](http://redux.js.org/docs/api/applyMiddleware.html), change this:
  ```javascript
  import { createStore, applyMiddleware, compose } from 'redux';
  
  const store = createStore(reducer, preloadedState, compose(
    applyMiddleware(...middleware),
    // other store enhancers if any
  ));
  ```
  to:
  ```javascript
  import { createStore, applyMiddleware } from 'redux';
  import { composeWithDevTools } from 'remote-redux-devtools';
  
  const store = createStore(reducer, /* preloadedState, */ composeWithDevTools(
    applyMiddleware(...middleware),
    // other store enhancers if any
  ));
  ```
  or with devTools' options:
  ```javascript
  import { createStore, applyMiddleware } from 'redux';
  import { composeWithDevTools } from 'remote-redux-devtools';
  
  const composeEnhancers = composeWithDevTools({ realtime: true, port: 8000 });
  const store = createStore(reducer, /* preloadedState, */ composeEnhancers(
    applyMiddleware(...middleware),
    // other store enhancers if any
  ));
  ```

### Enabling

In order not to allow it in production by default, the enhancer will have effect only when `process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development'`.

For Webpack you should add it as following (`webpack.config.dev.js`):
```js
// ...
plugins: [
  new webpack.DefinePlugin({
    'process.env.NODE_ENV': JSON.stringify('production')
  })
],
// ...
```

In case you don't set `NODE_ENV`, you can set `realtime` parameter to `true` or to other global variable to turn it off in production:

```js
const store = createStore(reducer, devToolsEnhancer({ realtime: true }));
```

### Monitoring

Use one of our monitor apps to inspect and dispatch actions:
* [web](http://remotedev.io/local)
* [redux-devtools-extension](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/redux-devtools-extension) - Click "Remote" button (or press [`Cmd+Ctrl+Arrow up`](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/redux-devtools-extension#keyboard-shortcuts)) to open remote monitoring.
* [remote-redux-devtools-on-debugger](https://github.com/jhen0409/remote-redux-devtools-on-debugger) - Used in React Native debugger as a dock monitor.
* [atom-redux-devtools](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/atom-redux-devtools) - Used in Atom editor.
* [redux-dispatch-cli](https://github.com/jhen0409/redux-dispatch-cli) - A CLI tool for Redux remote dispatch.

Use [remotedev-app](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/remotedev-app) to create your own monitor app.

### Communicate via local server

In order to make it simple to use, by default, the module and the monitor app communicate via [remotedev.io](http://remotedev.io) server. Use [remotedev-server](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/remotedev-server) cli to run it locally in order to make the connection faster and not to require an internet connection.
You can import it in your `server.js` script and start remotedev server together with your development server:
```js
var remotedev = require('remotedev-server');
remotedev({ hostname: 'localhost', port: 8000 });
```
See [remotedev-server](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/remotedev-server) repository for more details.
For React Native you can use [react-native-debugger](https://github.com/jhen0409/react-native-debugger) or [remote-redux-devtools-on-debugger](https://github.com/jhen0409/remote-redux-devtools-on-debugger), which already include `remotedev-server`.


### Parameters

Name                  | Description
-------------         | -------------
`name`                | *String* representing the instance name to be shown on the remote monitor.
`realtime`            | *Boolean* specifies whether to allow remote monitoring. By default is `process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development'`. 
`hostname`            | *String* used to specify host for [`remotedev-server`](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/remotedev-server). If `port` is specified, default value is `localhost`.
`port`                | *Number* used to specify host's port for [`remotedev-server`](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/remotedev-server).
`secure`              | *Boolean* specifies whether to use `https` protocol for [`remotedev-server`](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/remotedev-server).
`maxAge`              | *Number* of maximum allowed actions to be stored on the history tree, the oldest actions are removed once maxAge is reached. Default is `30`.
`actionsBlacklist`    | *array* of actions to be hidden in DevTools. Overwrites corresponding global setting in the options page. See the example bellow.
`actionsWhitelist`    | *array* of actions to be shown. All other actions will be hidden in DevTools.
`actionSanitizer`     | *Function* which takes action object and id number as arguments, and should return action object back. See the example bellow.
`stateSanitizer`      | *Function* which takes state object and index as arguments, and should return state object back. See the example bellow.
`startOn`             | *String* or *Array of strings* indicating an action or a list of actions, which should start remote monitoring (when `realtime` is `false`). 
`stopOn`              | *String* or *Array of strings* indicating an action or a list of actions, which should stop remote monitoring. 
`sendOn`              | *String* or *Array of strings* indicating an action or a list of actions, which should trigger sending the history to the monitor (without starting it). *Note*: when using it, add a `fetch` polyfill if needed.
`sendOnError`         | *Numeric* code: `0` - disabled (default), `1` - send all uncaught exception messages, `2` - send only reducers error messages.
`sendTo`              | *String* url of the monitor to send the history when `sendOn` is triggered. By default is `${secure ? 'https' : 'http'}://${hostname}:${port}`.
`actionCreators`      | *Array* or *Object* of action creators to dispatch remotely. See [the example](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/remote-redux-devtools/commit/b54652930dfd4e057991df8471c343957fd7bff7).
`shouldHotReload`     | *Boolean* - if set to `false`, will not recompute the states on hot reloading (or on replacing the reducers). Default to `true`.
 `shouldRecordChanges`| *Boolean* - if specified as `false`, it will not record the changes till clicked on "Start recording" button on the monitor app. Default is `true`.
 `shouldStartLocked`  | *Boolean* - if specified as `true`, it will not allow any non-monitor actions to be dispatched till `lockChanges(false)` is dispatched. Default is `false`.
`id`                  | *String* to identify the instance when sending the history triggered by `sendOn`. You can use, for example, user id here, to know who sent the data.

All parameters are optional. You have to provide at least `port` property to use `localhost` instead of `remotedev.io` server.

Example:
```js
export default function configureStore(preloadedState) {
  const store = createStore(
    reducer,
    preloadedState,
    devToolsEnhancer({
      name: 'Android app', realtime: true,
      hostname: 'localhost', port: 8000,
      maxAge: 30, actionsBlacklist: ['EFFECT_RESOLVED'],
      actionSanitizer: (action) => (
       action.type === 'FILE_DOWNLOAD_SUCCESS' && action.data ?
       { ...action, data: '<<LONG_BLOB>>' } : action
      ),
      stateSanitizer: (state) => state.data ? { ...state, data: '<<LONG_BLOB>>' } : state
    })
  );
  return store;
}
```

### Demo
- [Toggle monitoring](http://zalmoxisus.github.io/monitoring/)

### Examples
- [Web](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/remote-redux-devtools/tree/master/examples)
- [React Native](https://github.com/chentsulin/react-native-counter-ios-android)

### License

MIT

Commit message:

[docs] Add a note about the fixed React Native issue
Fix #62, #60, #39.

README.md, after:

Remote Redux DevTools
=====================

![Demo](demo.gif)

Use [Redux DevTools](https://github.com/gaearon/redux-devtools) remotely for React Native, hybrid, desktop and server side Redux apps.

### Installation

```
npm install --save-dev remote-redux-devtools
```

> Note that if you are using a earlier version than `react-native@0.41.0` on Windows, you should use `remote-redux-devtools@0.5.0` (due to a Windows issue fixed in `react-native@0.41.0`).

### Usage

There are 2 ways of usage depending if you're using other store enhancers (middlewares) or not.

#### Add DevTools enhancer to your store

If you have a basic [store](http://redux.js.org/docs/api/createStore.html) as described in the official [redux-docs](http://redux.js.org/index.html), simply replace:
  ```javascript
  import { createStore } from 'redux';
  const store = createStore(reducer);
  ```
  with
  ```javascript
  import { createStore } from 'redux';
  import devToolsEnhancer from 'remote-redux-devtools';
  const store = createStore(reducer, devToolsEnhancer());
  // or const store = createStore(reducer, preloadedState, devToolsEnhancer());
  ```
  
> Note: passing enhancer as last argument requires redux@>=3.1.0

#### Use DevTools compose helper

  If you setup your store with [middleware and enhancers](http://redux.js.org/docs/api/applyMiddleware.html), change this:
  ```javascript
  import { createStore, applyMiddleware, compose } from 'redux';
  
  const store = createStore(reducer, preloadedState, compose(
    applyMiddleware(...middleware),
    // other store enhancers if any
  ));
  ```
  to:
  ```javascript
  import { createStore, applyMiddleware } from 'redux';
  import { composeWithDevTools } from 'remote-redux-devtools';
  
  const store = createStore(reducer, /* preloadedState, */ composeWithDevTools(
    applyMiddleware(...middleware),
    // other store enhancers if any
  ));
  ```
  or with devTools' options:
  ```javascript
  import { createStore, applyMiddleware } from 'redux';
  import { composeWithDevTools } from 'remote-redux-devtools';
  
  const composeEnhancers = composeWithDevTools({ realtime: true, port: 8000 });
  const store = createStore(reducer, /* preloadedState, */ composeEnhancers(
    applyMiddleware(...middleware),
    // other store enhancers if any
  ));
  ```

### Enabling

In order not to allow it in production by default, the enhancer will have effect only when `process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development'`.

For Webpack you should add it as following (`webpack.config.dev.js`):
```js
// ...
plugins: [
  new webpack.DefinePlugin({
    'process.env.NODE_ENV': JSON.stringify('production')
  })
],
// ...
```

In case you don't set `NODE_ENV`, you can set `realtime` parameter to `true` or to other global variable to turn it off in production:

```js
const store = createStore(reducer, devToolsEnhancer({ realtime: true }));
```

### Monitoring

Use one of our monitor apps to inspect and dispatch actions:
* [web](http://remotedev.io/local)
* [redux-devtools-extension](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/redux-devtools-extension) - Click "Remote" button (or press [`Cmd+Ctrl+Arrow up`](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/redux-devtools-extension#keyboard-shortcuts)) to open remote monitoring.
* [remote-redux-devtools-on-debugger](https://github.com/jhen0409/remote-redux-devtools-on-debugger) - Used in React Native debugger as a dock monitor.
* [atom-redux-devtools](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/atom-redux-devtools) - Used in Atom editor.
* [redux-dispatch-cli](https://github.com/jhen0409/redux-dispatch-cli) - A CLI tool for Redux remote dispatch.

Use [remotedev-app](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/remotedev-app) to create your own monitor app.

### Communicate via local server

In order to make it simple to use, by default, the module and the monitor app communicate via [remotedev.io](http://remotedev.io) server. Use [remotedev-server](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/remotedev-server) cli to run it locally in order to make the connection faster and not to require an internet connection.
You can import it in your `server.js` script and start remotedev server together with your development server:
```js
var remotedev = require('remotedev-server');
remotedev({ hostname: 'localhost', port: 8000 });
```
See [remotedev-server](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/remotedev-server) repository for more details.
For React Native you can use [react-native-debugger](https://github.com/jhen0409/react-native-debugger) or [remote-redux-devtools-on-debugger](https://github.com/jhen0409/remote-redux-devtools-on-debugger), which already include `remotedev-server`.


### Parameters

Name                  | Description
-------------         | -------------
`name`                | *String* representing the instance name to be shown on the remote monitor.
`realtime`            | *Boolean* specifies whether to allow remote monitoring. By default is `process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development'`. 
`hostname`            | *String* used to specify host for [`remotedev-server`](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/remotedev-server). If `port` is specified, default value is `localhost`.
`port`                | *Number* used to specify host's port for [`remotedev-server`](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/remotedev-server).
`secure`              | *Boolean* specifies whether to use `https` protocol for [`remotedev-server`](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/remotedev-server).
`maxAge`              | *Number* of maximum allowed actions to be stored on the history tree, the oldest actions are removed once maxAge is reached. Default is `30`.
`actionsBlacklist`    | *array* of actions to be hidden in DevTools. Overwrites corresponding global setting in the options page. See the example bellow.
`actionsWhitelist`    | *array* of actions to be shown. All other actions will be hidden in DevTools.
`actionSanitizer`     | *Function* which takes action object and id number as arguments, and should return action object back. See the example bellow.
`stateSanitizer`      | *Function* which takes state object and index as arguments, and should return state object back. See the example bellow.
`startOn`             | *String* or *Array of strings* indicating an action or a list of actions, which should start remote monitoring (when `realtime` is `false`). 
`stopOn`              | *String* or *Array of strings* indicating an action or a list of actions, which should stop remote monitoring. 
`sendOn`              | *String* or *Array of strings* indicating an action or a list of actions, which should trigger sending the history to the monitor (without starting it). *Note*: when using it, add a `fetch` polyfill if needed.
`sendOnError`         | *Numeric* code: `0` - disabled (default), `1` - send all uncaught exception messages, `2` - send only reducers error messages.
`sendTo`              | *String* url of the monitor to send the history when `sendOn` is triggered. By default is `${secure ? 'https' : 'http'}://${hostname}:${port}`.
`actionCreators`      | *Array* or *Object* of action creators to dispatch remotely. See [the example](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/remote-redux-devtools/commit/b54652930dfd4e057991df8471c343957fd7bff7).
`shouldHotReload`     | *Boolean* - if set to `false`, will not recompute the states on hot reloading (or on replacing the reducers). Default to `true`.
 `shouldRecordChanges`| *Boolean* - if specified as `false`, it will not record the changes till clicked on "Start recording" button on the monitor app. Default is `true`.
 `shouldStartLocked`  | *Boolean* - if specified as `true`, it will not allow any non-monitor actions to be dispatched till `lockChanges(false)` is dispatched. Default is `false`.
`id`                  | *String* to identify the instance when sending the history triggered by `sendOn`. You can use, for example, user id here, to know who sent the data.

All parameters are optional. You have to provide at least `port` property to use `localhost` instead of `remotedev.io` server.

Example:
```js
export default function configureStore(preloadedState) {
  const store = createStore(
    reducer,
    preloadedState,
    devToolsEnhancer({
      name: 'Android app', realtime: true,
      hostname: 'localhost', port: 8000,
      maxAge: 30, actionsBlacklist: ['EFFECT_RESOLVED'],
      actionSanitizer: (action) => (
       action.type === 'FILE_DOWNLOAD_SUCCESS' && action.data ?
       { ...action, data: '<<LONG_BLOB>>' } : action
      ),
      stateSanitizer: (state) => state.data ? { ...state, data: '<<LONG_BLOB>>' } : state
    })
  );
  return store;
}
```

### Demo
- [Toggle monitoring](http://zalmoxisus.github.io/monitoring/)

### Examples
- [Web](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/remote-redux-devtools/tree/master/examples)
- [React Native](https://github.com/chentsulin/react-native-counter-ios-android)

### License

MIT
